From Joel.Vigneau at ifremer.fr  Fri Feb 20 17:37:09 2009
From: Joel.Vigneau at ifremer.fr (Joel VIGNEAU)
Date: Fri, 20 Feb 2009 17:37:09 +0100
Subject: [cost-devel] state of the art
Message-ID: <499EDC35.5090106@ifremer.fr>

Dear developers,


There are lots of methods under developments, some are available in the 
CVS, others are still missing. I've gone through some of them, not all 
and I've found generally a lack of robustness, which comes from the fact 
that nobody else have tested them. I am the first to blame, but let me 
summarise some of the points I have seen that need to be discussed:

   1. There is a new COSTcore 1.3-0 now, which works under R 2.8.1
   2. David Maxwell has introduced in his script 'vesselRaiseBoot' a
      piece of code taking into account the landing multiplier, the
      misallocation and the misreporting. This would deserve to be a
      function like 'estLand()' that everyone should use each time one
      has to use the landings information. 
   3. from the 1st COST meeting we decided to define PSUid as the trip,
      SSUid as the fishing operation and TSUid as the commercial
      category. By doing this, in the consolidated object, when we
      define the strategy as "commCat" the field 'Technical' = NA. I've
      seen some code taking 'technical' as the stratifier for commCat. I
      think our choice makes sense when comes my points 4.3 & 4.7 below
   4. Under dbe, the following development is
               1. Landing - CommCat + ALK     Analytical & Bootstrap :
                  there are two codes here for analytical
                  'vesselRaise.An' and Marcel type 3, am I right?
                  Marcel, do you have some litterature backing your
                  approaches?
               2. Landing - Metier unsorted + ALK     No code, but
                  should be very similar to 3.1 except that one is
                  'TSUid' and the other is 'Technical'
               3. Landing - Metier CommCat + ALK    No code, this is
                  very specific as it makes use of 'TSUid' and
                  'Technical'. I am sure there is little to do from 3.1
                  to 3.2 and 3.3.
               4. Landing/Discards - Analytical Raising procedures
                  following WKDRP - Code is Ok but still not in the CVS.
                  Mathieu will include the estimation of length
                  structure in these functions before making them
                  available on the CVS and include in the package.
               5. Landings - CommCat + Age direct     Analytical (Marcel
                  type 1, if I understand it properly) to be used for
                  debugging
               6. Landings - Metier + Age direct    No code, but should
                  be very similar to 3.5 except that one is 'TSUid' and
                  the other is 'Technical'
               7. Landings - Metier CommCat + Age direct    No code, but
                  as for 3.3 this should not be that difficult. Marcel
                  can you give a try?
               8. Biological parameters - Bootstrap Ok, to be used for
                  debugging
   5. I would appreciate to have a COSTdbe version 0.2 (I already have a
      COSTdbe 0.1-5 running on my computer) available on BerliOS by the
      6th of March including all codes available up to now, as I guess
      Dorleta is waiting to test some codes in the simulation package,
      which struggles to begin.
   6. I make a call to have some code in the mbe CVS as it is still
      empty. I need to know what is the workplan for this package, to
      get everything done on time.
   7. I have received two descriptions of code including a scheme of the
      algorithm used (in the COSTdbe CVS folders inst/doc). I need this
      for all the methods developed.

I have succeeded in reconducting a small contract for Mathieu who will 
come back for the project on the 2nd of March. If you hear from him 
before, it is on his free time!

I'll see David Maxwell  in Montpellier within 10 days and we'll take 
time to discuss more about these issues. I just wanted to share with you 
my thoughts on this and give some hints for immediate actions.

Hopefully, we'll get the project finished by mid-May for the Commission. 
By finish I understand, giving a report and packages that can be tested 
by an external evaluator. So we have to make all efforts to present 
workable packages and proper user manuals within 3 months!

Have a nice week-end

Regards

Joel





-- 

*/Jo?l VIGNEAU
/*Laboratoire "Ressources Halieutiques"
IFREMER
14 520 Port-en-Bessin

T?l. (33)2 31 51 56 41  - Fax (33)2 31 51 56 01
m?l : Joel.Vigneau at ifremer.fr <mailto:Joel.Vigneau at ifremer.fr>
http://www.ifremer.fr/drvpbessin/

-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/cost-project-devel/attachments/20090220/a9009114/attachment.html>

